This is a guide for creating a pilot 18F Edu course for accessibility.
Below are the broad sections of the course, a list of goals for each
section, and a list of initial tasks for the team to complete. Please
feel free to edit and add your name to tasks.

Accessibility 101
=================

This is the first section of the course. This section should aim to
introduce students to the concept and importance of the course.
Technical details, techniques, examples, and tools to achieve course
goals should be saved for future sections. This section will be most
effective if it is short, uses plain language, and builds an
understanding of the importance of this course that the student will
take with them through the rest of the material.

**Goals** - In this section, students should learn:

-   What accessibility is

-   Why it’s important

-   What 508 compliance is

-   Why we should think of this work as striving for accessibility and
    > not just 508 compliance

-   Beyond 508: Other standards, specifically Web Content Accessibility
    > Guidelines (WCAG)

-   What is coming up next in this course

**Tasks - Round 1**

-   Evaluate [*508 and
    > You*](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1UMlDH0Goy1oYte3qVSlCLui-dNM0pKLIG1kUyDZ6jsA/edit)

    -   Decide how this the slide deck could be broken up and used to
        > address the goals above

-   Evaluate [*508 Training for
    > Developers*](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1-GeDvt2TvA_dakhLLZIOdK57JQAxdvK4UEUreDetlqM/edit)

    -   Decide what information can be used for the 101 section

-   Edit content from 508 and You and 508 Training for Developers to
    > match style, tone, and goals.

-   Determine where content gaps are for the above goals

-   Fill in those content gaps

-   Organize into one or more modules to achieve goals

Developer training
==================

This is the bulk of the course. Since this section contains a lot of
detailed, technical, and critically important content, it’s important
that it be divided into manageable modules. This section will be
successful if it assumes the lowest level of technical knowledge
necessary, focuses on plain language standards and their solutions,
allows students to practice individual skills before moving on to the
next section. Though this section deals with federal regulations,
modules should strive to use plain language and frame recommendations as
desirable because they improve accessibility and not simply because they
fulfill a federal regulation.

**Goals** - In this section, students should learn:

-   Accessibility standards and requirements

-   Ways to meet those standards

-   Ways to evaluate their work

-   What it’s like to use tools made for those with accessibility
    > challenges, for example screen readers

**Tasks - Round 1**

-   Create list of required modules based on 508 Training for Developers
    > sections

-   Break up [*508 Training for
    > Developers*](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1-GeDvt2TvA_dakhLLZIOdK57JQAxdvK4UEUreDetlqM/edit)
    > into module-sized chunks

-   List edits or additional content that needs to be added to expand
    > groups of slides into a module

-   Choose a screen reader tool and develop ideas for a module around
    > the basics of screen readers for those who have never used one
    > before

Evaluation
----------

This section will evaluate how well students learned information from
the two previous sections. The proposed format for this section will be
a repo of a mock site with numerous accessibility problems that students
would clone, edit, and then push back up so that teachers could evaluate
their comprehension in a real-world scenario. This section will succeed
if the evaluation models real world situations, covers a wide range of
accessibility topics, integrates written evaluation of Accessibility 101
with developer evaluation, and has a mechanism to record and track
scores over time.

**Goals** - This section should:

-   Be able to easily access the evaluation

-   Require the fewest number of tools to complete

-   Cover a wide range of topics

-   Be easy to grade

-   Be easy to track student results and progress

**Tasks - Round 1**

-   Evaluate the feasibility of a GitHub repo type of evaluation

-   Create a list of evaluation topics

-   Develop recommendations and format for a mock repo

Post course reference resources 
--------------------------------

This section will provide resources that students can use in the future
to quickly look up material from the course. It will also include links
to tools and applications that students can use to evaluate their own
future work and improve their accessibility compliance. This section
will succeed if the resources and tools are relevant, well organized,
and easy for students to apply to the best practices they learned in
previous sections.

**Resources**\
[*Tools*](http://18f.github.io/hackathons/a11yhack/tools/)

[*Dev
process*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zLLpv7ee9yTGN7P80h-Q6LzqTSeu3EDfxCB0kl7R1H4/edit#heading=h.z1h318p3zjnn)

[*Design
tips*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10k_B_52B-0B2EohWRoBnSdZxVgmIrUwhYOd-N34OzCk/edit)

[*Guide*](http://18f.github.io/accessibility/)

**Goals** - This section should:

-   Include a range of resources and tools, both created by 18F and by
    > third parties

-   Include short, concise explanations of the tools

-   Be well organized

-   Not be overwhelmingly long

**Tasks - Round 1**

-   Gather a list of resources and tools from existing materials

-   Choose a small list of the best tools

-   Write short descriptions of each tool

-   Decide on a useful organization structure

Project resources
-----------------

These are a small number of resources that developers or project leads
will be required to use on every project they complete. These will also
be linked to from the resources page, but they are a separate, required
form. Currently, these exist as Google Sheets documents. The proposed
change is to convert them to a Google Form so responses can be tracked
and changes to course materials can be made accordingly.

**Resources**

[*Checklist*](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1lQu1QZ6eadyWx3OqYmlqIKwSEY164Nvt14H8-cNGpxI/edit#gid=0)

[*Dev
checklist*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KoUFdxSFJ5HRHXCPSEf1DGCRUR4pV57uj8lWR8DT4IE/edit#heading=h.bvylgbutm462)

**Goals** - These materials should:

-   Be concise

-   Use plain language

-   Fit well into developer or project lead workflow

-   Be designed so responses can be easily captured and analyzed later

**Tasks - Round 1**

-   Interview developers about process of filling out 508 forms

    -   Determine improvements that could be made

-   Evaluate and edit existing resources for plain language

-   Decide if a Google Form is the best option and how to best integrate
    > it into the developer’s workflow

Follow up
---------

This section is meant to include follow-up materials that will benefit
both students and teachers. These materials will be successful if they
are low-impact enough to have a high completion rate and if they provide
meaningful feedback to teachers that can be used to improve the course
curriculum.

**Goals** - These materials should:

-   Be easy to complete

-   Capture and deliver results to teachers

-   Address topics covered in the first two sections of the course

-   Have content that is easy to change

**Tasks - Round 1**

-   Interview developers about preferred formats

-   Evaluate various methods to administer this follow up

-   Choose a small number of topics to address

-   Determine criteria for accessing results


